README.md, before:

# ☕ Chai aur React Series

![React](https://img.shields.io/badge/React-19.1.1-blue?logo=react)
![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-green)
![YouTube Playlist](https://img.shields.io/badge/Watch-Chai%20aur%20React-red?logo=youtube)

Welcome to my learning repository for the **[Chai aur React](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLRAV69dS1uWTyP_vM3Q5JLFQ1bY1a_k6F)** series by [Hitesh Choudhary](https://www.youtube.com/@HiteshChoudhary).

This repo documents my hands-on journey into the world of **React.js**, where I’m building, breaking, and understanding everything from fundamentals to advanced concepts — one cup of chai at a time ☕💻.

---

## 🎯 Learning Goals

- Understand React fundamentals — components, JSX, props, and state.
- Master hooks like `useState`, `useEffect`, and custom hooks.
- Learn to structure React projects the *right* way.
- Explore **Context API**, **React Router**, and **custom hooks**.
- Build real-world projects (from beginner to advanced).
- Strengthen JavaScript concepts while integrating them into React.

---

## 🗓️ Progress Tracker

| # | Topic | Status |
|---|--------|---------|
| 0 | React JS Roadmap | ✅ Completed |
| 1 | Create React Projects with Vite and Create-React-App | ✅ Completed |
| 2 | Understand the React flow and folder structure | ✅ Completed |
| 3 | Create your own React Library and JSX | ✅ Completed |
| 4 | Why you need Hooks | ✅ Completed |
| 5 | Virtual DOM, Fibre and Reconciliation | 🕒 In Progress |
| 6 | Project: BG Changer | ⏳ Pending |
| 7 | Project: Password Generator | ⏳ Pending |
| 8 | Routing in React | ⏳ Pending |
| 9 | Context API | ⏳ Pending |
| 10 | Final Project | ⏳ Pending |

---

## 📂 Project Structure

```
chai-aur-react-series/
├── 01-create-react-project/
│   ├── cra-react-project/
│   └── vite-react-project/
├── 02-react-flow-file-structure/
|   ├── cra-react-project/
│   └── vite-react-project/
├── 03-create-your-own-react-library-and-jsx/
|   ├── cra-react-project/
│   └── vite-react-project/
├── 04-why-you-need-hooks/
|   ├── vite-counter-project-using-hooks/
├── 05-context-api/
├── 06-projects/
│   ├── bg-changer/
│   ├── password-generator/
│   └── todo-app/
└── README.md
```

Each folder corresponds to a playlist video or topic.  
Every project includes:
- 🧠 Concepts learned
- 🧩 Code implementation
- 🧾 Notes or key takeaways

---

## 🧠 Concepts Covered (so far)

| Topic | Description |
|-------|--------------|
| ⚙️ Setup & Environment | Vite + React + Tailwind basics |
| 🧩 Components | Functional components, props, and rendering |
| 🔁 State Management | useState, useEffect, and event handling |
| 🧭 Routing | Navigation using React Router v6 |
| 🧰 Context API | Managing global state cleanly |
| 🧱 Custom Hooks | Code reuse and separation of concerns |
| 🚀 Projects | Mini-projects and hands-on builds |

---

## 💻 Tools & Tech Stack

- ⚛️ React 19+
- ⚡ Vite (for blazing-fast dev setup)
- 🎨 Tailwind CSS
- 🔄 Git & GitHub
- 🧠 VS Code
- ☕ Lots of Chai

---

## 🌱 How to Use This Repo

1. Clone the repository  
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/<your-username>/chai-aur-react-journey.git
   cd chai-aur-react-journey
   ```

2. Navigate into any folder  
   ```bash
   cd 02-components-and-props
   npm install
   npm run dev
   ```

3. Follow along with the YouTube playlist and take notes in each folder’s `notes.md`.

---

## 📺 Playlist Reference

- **YouTube Playlist** → [Chai aur React (by Hitesh Choudhary)](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLRAV69dS1uWTyP_vM3Q5JLFQ1bY1a_k6F)
- **Instructor** → [Hitesh Choudhary](https://www.youtube.com/@HiteshChoudhary)

---

## 🤝 Let’s Connect

If you’re also learning React or following the same playlist, let’s connect and grow together!  
💬 I’m always open to collaboration, feedback, and project discussions.

- 🌐 **LinkedIn:** [https://linkedin.com/in/surajit-rana](https://linkedin.com/in/surajit-rana)
- 🐙 **GitHub:** [https://github.com/<your-username>](https://github.com/<your-username>)

---

## ⭐ Acknowledgment

Big thanks to **Hitesh Choudhary** for making React learning approachable and fun!  
*"Code, Debug, Repeat — with Chai in hand ☕"*

---

## 🧾 License

This repository is for **learning and educational purposes** only.  
You’re free to fork, learn, and build your own version!

Commit message:

feat[p05][react-dom-fibre-reconciliation]: virtual-dom, fibre and reconciliation

README.md, after:

# ☕ Chai aur React Series

![React](https://img.shields.io/badge/React-19.1.1-blue?logo=react)
![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-green)
![YouTube Playlist](https://img.shields.io/badge/Watch-Chai%20aur%20React-red?logo=youtube)

Welcome to my learning repository for the **[Chai aur React](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLRAV69dS1uWTyP_vM3Q5JLFQ1bY1a_k6F)** series by [Hitesh Choudhary](https://www.youtube.com/@HiteshChoudhary).

This repo documents my hands-on journey into the world of **React.js**, where I’m building, breaking, and understanding everything from fundamentals to advanced concepts — one cup of chai at a time ☕💻.

---

## 🎯 Learning Goals

- Understand React fundamentals — components, JSX, props, and state.
- Master hooks like `useState`, `useEffect`, and custom hooks.
- Learn to structure React projects the *right* way.
- Explore **Context API**, **React Router**, and **custom hooks**.
- Build real-world projects (from beginner to advanced).
- Strengthen JavaScript concepts while integrating them into React.

---

## 🗓️ Progress Tracker

| # | Topic | Status |
|---|--------|---------|
| 0 | React JS Roadmap | ✅ Completed |
| 1 | Create React Projects with Vite and Create-React-App | ✅ Completed |
| 2 | Understand the React flow and folder structure | ✅ Completed |
| 3 | Create your own React Library and JSX | ✅ Completed |
| 4 | Why you need Hooks | ✅ Completed |
| 5 | Virtual DOM, Fibre and Reconciliation | ✅ Completed |
| 6 | Tailwind and Props in React | 🕒 In Progress |
| 7 | Project: Password Generator | ⏳ Pending |
| 8 | Routing in React | ⏳ Pending |
| 9 | Context API | ⏳ Pending |
| 10 | Final Project | ⏳ Pending |

---

## 📂 Project Structure

```
chai-aur-react-series/
├── 01-create-react-project/
│   ├── cra-react-project/
│   └── vite-react-project/
├── 02-react-flow-file-structure/
|   ├── cra-react-project/
│   └── vite-react-project/
├── 03-create-your-own-react-library-and-jsx/
|   ├── cra-react-project/
│   └── vite-react-project/
├── 04-why-you-need-hooks/
|   ├── vite-counter-project-using-hooks/
├── 05-react-dom-fibre-reconciliation/
|   ├── readme.md/
├── 06-tailwind-and-props-in-react/
│   ├── bg-changer/
│   ├── password-generator/
│   └── todo-app/
└── README.md
```

Each folder corresponds to a playlist video or topic.  
Every project includes:
- 🧠 Concepts learned
- 🧩 Code implementation
- 🧾 Notes or key takeaways

---

## 🧠 Concepts Covered (so far)

| Topic | Description |
|-------|--------------|
| ⚙️ Setup & Environment | Vite + React + Tailwind basics |
| 🧩 Components | Functional components, props, and rendering |
| 🔁 State Management | useState, useEffect, and event handling |
| 🧭 Routing | Navigation using React Router v6 |
| 🧰 Context API | Managing global state cleanly |
| 🧱 Custom Hooks | Code reuse and separation of concerns |
| 🚀 Projects | Mini-projects and hands-on builds |

---

## 💻 Tools & Tech Stack

- ⚛️ React 19+
- ⚡ Vite (for blazing-fast dev setup)
- 🎨 Tailwind CSS
- 🔄 Git & GitHub
- 🧠 VS Code
- ☕ Lots of Chai

---

## 🌱 How to Use This Repo

1. Clone the repository  
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/<your-username>/chai-aur-react-journey.git
   cd chai-aur-react-journey
   ```

2. Navigate into any folder  
   ```bash
   cd 02-components-and-props
   npm install
   npm run dev
   ```

3. Follow along with the YouTube playlist and take notes in each folder’s `notes.md`.

---

## 📺 Playlist Reference

- **YouTube Playlist** → [Chai aur React (by Hitesh Choudhary)](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLRAV69dS1uWTyP_vM3Q5JLFQ1bY1a_k6F)
- **Instructor** → [Hitesh Choudhary](https://www.youtube.com/@HiteshChoudhary)

---

## 🤝 Let’s Connect

If you’re also learning React or following the same playlist, let’s connect and grow together!  
💬 I’m always open to collaboration, feedback, and project discussions.

- 🌐 **LinkedIn:** [https://linkedin.com/in/surajit-rana](https://linkedin.com/in/surajit-rana)
- 🐙 **GitHub:** [https://github.com/<your-username>](https://github.com/<your-username>)

---

## ⭐ Acknowledgment

Big thanks to **Hitesh Choudhary** for making React learning approachable and fun!  
*"Code, Debug, Repeat — with Chai in hand ☕"*

---

## 🧾 License

This repository is for **learning and educational purposes** only.  
You’re free to fork, learn, and build your own version!
